So everyone, we're on the finishing straight!
One of the things I think we need, before we can play
tune, is to give the player some indication of how much it's
going to cost them, in terms of stars, to place one of these
defenders. Right now, I have no affordance about that. I just don't know
what they're going to cost. So in this video, we
are going to firstly, display the defender cost
on the buttons. Then, I'm going to ask you to
tweak the spawn frequency of the attackers. Adjust
the health of the attackers and defenders. Choose the
amount of damage that the projectiles do, and just generally play
the game and make sure it's a fun challenging game to play.
So, let's start off by sorting out this lack of
affordance, about the cast of these items.
How are we going to do that? Well firstly, we need to think how we're going to structure it.
We have already got buttons here, and if we look
in 3D, we can see where they
are in the game space. Let's just get around to this side.
This is the ideal place to put the text, right
on top of these buttons here. Right next
to the silhouette. So, how are we going to do that? Which
canvas are we going to use? Is it this Top Level, Level Canvas?
Or shall we add a canvas to buttons?
If you look down at say the cactus and the gnome,
etc., you'll notice that they
already have nearly everything we need. They have a Button Script,
they're in the right places.
So, I think what makes some sense is just to add a component
to Buttons called Canvas.
Now the buttons themselves actually have canvases on them.
Let's try now, adding a
UI Text Element,
and childing it to say the Cactus. Let's
take the Cactus as a test case. I'm going to call that
element Cost. So, what I'v'e done is, I've put a Canvas
on the Buttons element itself, and then, against
the Cactus Button, as a child, I've put a Cost.
I'll put xx for the moment, to say that I don't actually have a
cost. Now look, it's huge! Look in the world
space here. It's absolutely massive! Firstly, check that your Canvas here is
World Space. it is World Space! That's good!
Then, we need to scale this text. We only need to
do it once, because once we've done it once we can
reuse it for the other buttons. So, let's put the other
text in the center or at the bottom,
vertically. Choose
a color. I'm going to go for yellow. I think that'll work!
You need a font size, such that the
text is not to aliased.
In your UI Tool here, we need to scale this guy,
so it's roughly the right shape.
So, that's the right sort of shape. Now, you need to
change the scale of this, altogether, so let's try 0.1
by 0.1 and see where that takes us.
It takes us there. I'm going to go back to 2D.
So, all you need to do is move this Cost Element,
over the top of your actual
buttons. OK, so that's your mission now. So we grab it and move it
And then, you could say well, why don't
we calculate the position? Well, it's a little bit harder to calculate, because we're
dealing some of the time with world space and some of the time with pixel
space. So, it's a
little bit easier to just move it around, the way that I'm doing
it. OK, remember you can't just size it down, because you'll
run out of font size. Alright, so you need
to get the element
stroke font size combination, so that you get a nice clearly
rendered font, and then, you just need to scale
using the Rect Transform
Scale, to make the final size changes. You can make minor
tweaks, by changing the size of the
actual canvas, once it's been scaled, the width and the height in pixels.
but your major change needs to be done by scaling, because of the
way we've got everything else set up. So, I'm going to put that at the
bottom left. Something like that!
Oops, careful not to move the wrong object!
And then, that's what we need! We have a little
label. You see if I go here, it's quite clear what's going on.
Also, we need to decide, do we want this label to be behind or in front?
Well, I think it would make sense for it to be in front. So, the Cactus
itself needs an order in
layer of 0, but if you do that
see what happens when you go to 0? You see it kind of goes
transparent, because it's kind of confluenced with this background.
That's the problem
you're going to have, if you go to 0. So, how are we going to
make the Cactus show up properly and have
this text in front?
That's a good question for you. You could try changing the Z position, but that's
only going to influence it's position relative to
the sprite. It's not actually going to help it coming in front of the
sprite, it's only going to help it change compared to the
background,
and that's because some of these things are transforms, if you
look at the top of the Inspector. And some of these things are rect transforms.
So, how do we get this text in front? Or do we
bother getting this text in front? Do we just leave it de-conflicted
out of the way there, and never go over the top? Well, that's a
design decision for you. It depends on what you think looks best.
If you want to have it sit in front or do some funny
fade or make it look really pretty, then you just need to
play with your Z positions, your ordering, and to look in
3D, to work out exactly what you want laying
in front of what. But for simplicity, I'm just going to duplicate this
Cost, into each of the other items for now
and not worry about that position in Z.
I'm going to use the Transform
Moving Tool,
to make sure that these are lined up against their relevant
buttons.
OK, so now for each of your buttons
you have a subelement, that has a text
script on it. XX, because by default we want
it to read nothing, because
we haven't read yet the cost of the Defender Prefab. We do
want the change in the Defender Prefab
Cost to be reflected
from this script, Cost here, into this button.
So, on load we're going to have to do something over
here, that's going to help take the defender cost from the defender item
and put it on that text. How are we going to do that? Well, we've got
got some code to do that. We've already got Button
Script, so we do not need to create anymore classes or
create anymore scripts. So, go into your Button Script,
and let's think about how we're going to do it.
So, it's all going to happen on Start. We may well refactor this out
in a moment, but for now, we need
access to something called a Cost Text.
So, what type of element is a Cost Text? It's going to be a
text, so private Text Cost,
not Texture. Text cost
Text; Now, why is Text in red?
Because I need the UnityEngineUI namespace, for the first time in
the button right. The button didn't do anything to do with UI, it does
now. There's a world space before.
Fantastic! So, on Start we're going to need to say that costText
= what?
Well, it's going to be... Actually, I'm going to get
you to do it. It's one of these things that's on the
screen, and I'm going to leave it as a challenge for you,
to get the rest of that working. So, here's your challenge!
Read the starCost, from the relevant defender. Display the
cost on the button, in the small text field that we just created,
and log a warning, if you can't find that text.
[Laughs] Ah, just when you thought you were going to sit back
and relax and copy and paste. You'll never learn anything that way.
Fantastic! So, that's your challenge. Good
luck, and I'll see you soon!
OK, welcome back! So,
the method I'm going to use it GetComponentInChildren.
Let's make sure we know why it's
GetComponentInChildren.
Because if we look over in Unity,
here the Cactus has the Button Script on it, and Cost
is a child of that, so that's why it's GetComponentInChildren.
And then, this child GameObject
has a type against it, of Text, because we have a Text component
on it. Alright, so if we GetComponent
InChildren. I'm going to use this format, the
generic format, <Text> like that in the
chevrons. Then, we have our costText
set. Fantastic! A couple more lines. We need to say if there's
no costText, then we need to give the designer some indication
of what they need to be doing about it. We Debug.Log what,
warning or error? Well, it's not going to stop the game running, so I'm just going to
log a warning, and we're going to say which object
has the problem, with a space " has no
cost text". So, it just warns
the designer that there's not cost text been assigned
against it. What do I mean by no costText? I mean
that this sub-object is missing this Text Script.
OK, that's what would happen if there was a Text Script missing. I'm going to do it all
on one line. You just have to be really careful,
particularly with your semicolon here, that you include a semicolon.
This one line, of course, is equivalent to the format we
usually show you, which is that. So, if you
want to get it on one line
without having to... Sorry I've got a, one second.
I have got myself an
error. That's because I have never closed the brackets on Start,
so let's just compile, prove it compiles. Great! If you
ever want to compact a line down, if it's a single line in an
if, then probably write it this way, the way we've always shown you
to and then delete back. If you really do want
to keep it compact. It's just another option for you, OK.
So, it's costText.text is the text
part of the costText element =, now one
long line for us, just for practice. You
see these sort of long lines on the Internet, so why not get used to it.
defenderPrefab.GetConponent. We need to get from the Defender
Prefab, it's <Defender>() component,
to method.starCost. And we're nearly
there but it's an int, so we need to go ToString();
costText.text = defenderPrefab.GetComponent
<Defender>().starCost.ToString();
Mumbling as I go! So,
let's try it! Let's just remind ourselves, before we go in, what we're expecting.
We're expecting to see 10 for the Cactus...
10 for the Cactus. I'm going to set the
Gnome to 20. I want them to be different right. Set the
prefabs' defender cost different to each other,
so that you can see that this is working. It also may help
or hinder your game tuning. So let's try it!
Perfect! 10, 20, 30,
40. So now, we have some affordance as to what it's going to cost. That guy
is going to cost me 40. Shooting this fox
is just going to cost me 20. I've got 20 left, so I can't
afford to put one of these down. You see, great! Much easier
to play now! Fantastic! So, how are we doing on the
lecture? We
have displayed the defender cost. Now, I want you to tweak
the spawn frequency of the attackers, adjust the health, etc. So, that's
your challenge, is basically play tune the game engine.
There's several things you can change, healths,
projectile damage, etc.
Have a go! Make sure the game is challenging,
is fun, and is how you want it! And I suggest that
once you've done it for the first level, you
make each level a little bit harder, than the
previous level, and preferably introduce a new game mechanic. Now, I'm
not going to go through all of this, because it's very time consuming, but I
would suggest that on Level 1 you don't even have the
stones, in my game for example, that you maybe just
have one type of defender and one type of attacker.
And then, maybe in Level 2 you introduce another attacker or another defender,
and then, in Level 3 you introduce yet another.
OK, so creating new levels will be relatively easy,
if everything is prefabbed up properly.
So, at this stage in the course, I think you're ready to do that. So, play tune your game,
make two or three levels, and when you've finished,
share it! Share it on Game Bucket! Share it with everybody else on the
course! I want to see what you've created! Brice really wants to
see what you've created, so we can't wait to see what comes out the other
end of Glitch Garden. Go ahead, finish off your game,
play tune it, and we'll talk about mobile deployment soon!
OK, so what I am going to show you quickly is a way of
creating a second and third level. So, I could delete the second
and third levels, just remove them altogether,
and then
Duplicate, firstly, just Level 1
into Level 2 and then I'm going to Duplicate
again. Let's assume that this state we've created is actually
Level 3 and that
we want Level 1 and 2 to be simpler.
So, what are we going to lose for Level 2? So, let's go to Level 2
and think, well how do we roll this out,
if it's going to be three levels? So, maybe in Level 1 you only have one
defender and one attacker. So, in Level 1
you'd probably have a sun and
maybe just a cactus dude. So, what
you can do in Level 1 is, you can go ahead to your buttons, and then, start
deleting the Stone
and the Gnome,
and then, just squeeze down the Background...
...like so. Move it.
You get the idea right? And then, move the Trophy
to X = 2. Let's see
how well that runs!
Now, it's going to be tricky, because we're going to have multiple
attacker types. So, I think it's probably worth
getting rid of the Fox, here as well. So, how do get rid of the Fox? You go to your
Spawners, all of your Spawners. You set their
Array Size to 1 and have just a Lizard now.
OK,
so now this Level 1 thing only has
cactuses and lizards.
Fine! So then, Level 2
you could say, well what are we going to leave out of Level 2?
Well, maybe we'll leave out the...
Maybe we'll leave out the Gnome or something like that.
So, you get the idea right. You delete the Gnome.
It'll lose the
prefab connection. That's fine, we don't care.
Make the background smaller, resize
the background, or reposition the background.
Move the Stone and the Trophy one
left. OK,
you get the idea! So now, we're rolling out functionality,
as we roll through the levels. So,
in Level 2 we now have
a gravestone, and we realize that the foxes can jump
over it. Maybe it's
a bit much having the foxes in here still, so we'll probably
just go into the Spawners and take the Foxes out.
I'm just absolutely guessing here. It's a lot of work and time to
go through and get this, so that it's
exactly how you want it. So, that's what you're going to need to take
time to do to take pride in your game. So, Level
1 has just star trophies and
cactuses. Level 2 introduces the
stone here, and then, Level 3 has everything,
including the foxes,
so it's all there. So you go oh, foxes jump over
but I've got another gnome, and you get the idea. So now, we're rolling
out the
scope of the game, in terms of the functionality, as we go through the
levels. You can also go and play tune each of these levels, so they get more
challenging, as the player gets batter. You just
need to get other people, not you, to play the game again and again,
and watch what they're doing and see that it
leads to a challenging fun game. And if it doesn't,
tweak it and repeat, until it works how you want it to work.
Alright, but that's basically it! If we go from the Start
of the game now and remind ourselves of what we've done.
We have a nice
sound on the start. We have options. We have a fade.
We can play the game. We start on a simple level,
100 seconds per level. Don't confuse
that with your 100 stars, initially in the
bank. We can place producers, we've got animations,
we've got different types of enemies, and you see how easy it
was to make multiple levels. All the reward comes in the
last few minutes, because we've set everything up, so it's that
easy to just duplicate our levels and create
new ones. So congratulations on getting
your game this far! Please do now, go over to
a gamebuck.io. I'm going to show you and remind you where that is.
And upload your game. So, remember what you need to do,
you need to build your game for the web in Unity.
So, that is literally File, Build Settings,
and then, in those settings check that your levels are in the right
order and they're all in and build it for the web. Pick a resolution
that works for you. I would suggest something...
Well, just pick a resolution and try it, basically.
I wouldn't go a lot more than 1,000 pixels wide,
maybe 1,200. Just be sympathetic of peoples' monitor sizes.
When you've done your web build, of course, you need to then
zip it up. The Build Folder is what we
want, the web Build Folder. We do not want your entire Project Folder.
If your music is too big, you want to try and keep this thing under 20 megabytes. You
may need to re-encode your music, using something like
Audacity or any other music
thing. Down sample your music a little bit, and then, just upload to
Game Bucket and use it the normal way. So, we can't wait to see your
game. Please do share it, at this stage, and then,
next up in this section and the final bit of the course is just
talking to you about how to deploy to mobile.
So, see you soon!